 

I'll go here is a procedural wood

 
I'll go here is a procedural wood
 

 
I'll go here is a procedural wood
texture it's sad

 
texture it's sad
 

 
texture it's sad
they've already parameters and outputs

 
they've already parameters and outputs
 

 
they've already parameters and outputs
something resembles work so you can get

 
something resembles work so you can get
 

 
something resembles work so you can get
some different results from the same

 
some different results from the same
 

 
some different results from the same
thing this is all from the same material

 
thing this is all from the same material
 

 
thing this is all from the same material
just with a few different numbers

 
just with a few different numbers
 

 
just with a few different numbers
[Music]

 
[Music]
 

 
[Music]
the problem is that this can be quite

 
the problem is that this can be quite
 

 
the problem is that this can be quite
heavy on your on no tree right these

 
heavy on your on no tree right these
 

 
heavy on your on no tree right these
these groups are really complex

 
these groups are really complex
 

 
these groups are really complex
two of them

 
two of them
 

 
two of them
you

 
you
 

 
you
what you really want to be able to do is

 
what you really want to be able to do is
 

 
what you really want to be able to do is
bake onto a single texture baking in

 
bake onto a single texture baking in
 

 
bake onto a single texture baking in
blender is notoriously slow I'm just

 
blender is notoriously slow I'm just
 

 
blender is notoriously slow I'm just
going to show you a few quick settings

 
going to show you a few quick settings
 

 
going to show you a few quick settings
just to make it go as quickly as it can

 
just to make it go as quickly as it can
 

 
just to make it go as quickly as it can
do so first of all what we can do is

 
do so first of all what we can do is
 

 
do so first of all what we can do is
we're going to use the power materialize

 
we're going to use the power materialize
 

 
we're going to use the power materialize
we want and then we're going to add

 
we want and then we're going to add
 

 
we want and then we're going to add
shift a add an image texture

 

 

 

then in here it was gonna set new and

 
then in here it was gonna set new and
 

 
then in here it was gonna set new and
call it defuse now you can set this

 
call it defuse now you can set this
 

 
call it defuse now you can set this
resolution to whatever you want I'm just

 
resolution to whatever you want I'm just
 

 
resolution to whatever you want I'm just
going to leave it as 1024 and turn off

 
going to leave it as 1024 and turn off
 

 
going to leave it as 1024 and turn off
alpha because that's extra information

 
alpha because that's extra information
 

 
alpha because that's extra information
we don't need this is going to be an

 
we don't need this is going to be an
 

 
we don't need this is going to be an
opaque image all the way across so turn

 
opaque image all the way across so turn
 

 
opaque image all the way across so turn
off alpha I'm going to hit okay

 
off alpha I'm going to hit okay
 

 
off alpha I'm going to hit okay
now in my UV editor I'm going to hit

 
now in my UV editor I'm going to hit
 

 
now in my UV editor I'm going to hit
this drop-down and select the diffuse

 
this drop-down and select the diffuse
 

 
this drop-down and select the diffuse
that we just made

 

 

 

right now is just a

 

 

 

nothing is no information stored there

 
nothing is no information stored there
 

 
nothing is no information stored there
so with it selected in the UV editor

 
so with it selected in the UV editor
 

 
so with it selected in the UV editor
make sure this node is selected doesn't

 
make sure this node is selected doesn't
 

 
make sure this node is selected doesn't
need to be plugged into anything we're

 
need to be plugged into anything we're
 

 
need to be plugged into anything we're
going to go into our render panel here

 
going to go into our render panel here
 

 
going to go into our render panel here
making sure the cycles is selected we

 
making sure the cycles is selected we
 

 
making sure the cycles is selected we
can go down to the bake settings and

 
can go down to the bake settings and
 

 
can go down to the bake settings and
first of all we're going to select

 
first of all we're going to select
 

 
first of all we're going to select
diffuse I'm going to turn off indirect

 
diffuse I'm going to turn off indirect
 

 
diffuse I'm going to turn off indirect
and direct so it's just recording the

 
and direct so it's just recording the
 

 
and direct so it's just recording the
color information

 
color information
 

 
color information
underperformance this is a really big

 
underperformance this is a really big
 

 
underperformance this is a really big
one you need to set the tile size to be

 
one you need to set the tile size to be
 

 
one you need to set the tile size to be
the exact resolution of your baked image

 
the exact resolution of your baked image
 

 
the exact resolution of your baked image
so in this case a 1024 by 1024 this

 

 

 

this thing is going to speed up your

 
this thing is going to speed up your
 

 
this thing is going to speed up your
bank then in the the the passes you

 
bank then in the the the passes you
 

 
bank then in the the the passes you
might think that you want a really high

 
might think that you want a really high
 

 
might think that you want a really high
one to get a smooth image but honestly

 
one to get a smooth image but honestly
 

 
one to get a smooth image but honestly
can set it to 16 and you're not going to

 
can set it to 16 and you're not going to
 

 
can set it to 16 and you're not going to
know as much difference so

 
know as much difference so
 

 
know as much difference so
really all there is to it 16 in the

 
really all there is to it 16 in the
 

 
really all there is to it 16 in the
render passes

 
render passes
 

 
render passes
your image size in pixels field trial

 
your image size in pixels field trial
 

 
your image size in pixels field trial
size then just select whichever map it

 
size then just select whichever map it
 

 
size then just select whichever map it
is that you're doing for there and then

 
is that you're doing for there and then
 

 
is that you're doing for there and then
hit bake

 

 

 

also make sure that you have your your

 
also make sure that you have your your
 

 
also make sure that you have your your
object selected that you're gonna bait

 
object selected that you're gonna bait
 

 
object selected that you're gonna bait
from otherwise you'll get an error down

 
from otherwise you'll get an error down
 

 
from otherwise you'll get an error down
here baked

 
here baked
 

 
here baked
sit here and texture break so this is

 
sit here and texture break so this is
 

 
sit here and texture break so this is
going to take a little while I will come

 
going to take a little while I will come
 

 
going to take a little while I will come
back when it's done

 

 

 

you

 

 

 

rend it you can see here we've got our

 
rend it you can see here we've got our
 

 
rend it you can see here we've got our
diffuse it's not

 
diffuse it's not
 

 
diffuse it's not
highest rise it's only 1024

 
highest rise it's only 1024
 

 
highest rise it's only 1024
now really important you remember to do

 
now really important you remember to do
 

 
now really important you remember to do
this this is not saved this is only

 
this this is not saved this is only
 

 
this this is not saved this is only
cached okay image in your UV editor

 
cached okay image in your UV editor
 

 
cached okay image in your UV editor
image save as and then just wherever

 
image save as and then just wherever
 

 
image save as and then just wherever
save it

 

 

 

you

 

 

 

this month a new material

 
this month a new material
 

 
this month a new material
Oh psdf we're going to swing into evey

 
Oh psdf we're going to swing into evey
 

 
Oh psdf we're going to swing into evey
creepy

 
creepy
 

 
creepy
so that we can see what's going on I'm

 
so that we can see what's going on I'm
 

 
so that we can see what's going on I'm
gonna add my image textures now

 

 

 

defuse

 

 

 

breathless

 
breathless
 

 
breathless
and no more

 

 

 

control-t I put the node Wrangler ad on

 
control-t I put the node Wrangler ad on
 

 
control-t I put the node Wrangler ad on
switched on

 

 

 

respect is the same

 

 

 

a new vector normal okay so in fact a

 
a new vector normal okay so in fact a
 

 
a new vector normal okay so in fact a
normal map the color up from the normal

 
normal map the color up from the normal
 

 
normal map the color up from the normal
into the color here I'm gonna set this

 
into the color here I'm gonna set this
 

 
into the color here I'm gonna set this
to blender object space which seems to

 
to blender object space which seems to
 

 
to blender object space which seems to
work better for me honestly that's

 
work better for me honestly that's
 

 
work better for me honestly that's
normal

 

 

 

I'm gonna drop that down

 
I'm gonna drop that down
 

 
I'm gonna drop that down
point one what's better and then I'm

 
point one what's better and then I'm
 

 
point one what's better and then I'm
gonna hit the roughness

 
gonna hit the roughness
 

 
gonna hit the roughness
you

 

 

 

as you can see we've already got just

 
as you can see we've already got just
 

 
as you can see we've already got just
roughness Shang 3 and then the basecoat

 
roughness Shang 3 and then the basecoat
 

 
roughness Shang 3 and then the basecoat
gazing of course

 
gazing of course
 

 
gazing of course
there we go that is

 

 

 

basically how you

 
basically how you
 

 
basically how you
a fake from

 

 

 

or any of your objects

 

 

 

one

 
one
 

 
one
CP useful because I can now get live

 
CP useful because I can now get live
 

 
CP useful because I can now get live
feedback using a scene it's very

 
feedback using a scene it's very
 

 
feedback using a scene it's very
lightweight this is a very small quick

 
lightweight this is a very small quick
 

 
lightweight this is a very small quick
thing for easy to handle or four cycles

 
thing for easy to handle or four cycles
 

 
thing for easy to handle or four cycles
to handle

 
to handle
 

 
to handle
and

 
and
 

 
and
that Cyprus lady

 

 

 

this is going through samples a little

 
this is going through samples a little
 

 
this is going through samples a little
bit

 
bit
 

 
bit
quite slow computer but this is demon on

 
quite slow computer but this is demon on
 

 
quite slow computer but this is demon on
three and if we were to switch back to

 
three and if we were to switch back to
 

 
three and if we were to switch back to
the original one

 

 

 

you can see that it looks to all intents

 
you can see that it looks to all intents
 

 
you can see that it looks to all intents
and purposes exactly the same

 

 

 

because of the node setup being so heavy

 
because of the node setup being so heavy
 

 
because of the node setup being so heavy
cannot actually be rendered with EVR to

 
cannot actually be rendered with EVR to
 

 
cannot actually be rendered with EVR to
show you that

 

 

 

as you can see we've got a just magenta

 
as you can see we've got a just magenta
 

 
as you can see we've got a just magenta
which is Glenda's way of saying cannot

 
which is Glenda's way of saying cannot
 

 
which is Glenda's way of saying cannot
display or nothing to display and

 

 

 

switch back to the new one

 

 

 

is

 

 

 

great that's that's what we want

 

 

 

so hope that's helped somebody just to

 
so hope that's helped somebody just to
 

 
so hope that's helped somebody just to
recap check your tire size is the same

 
recap check your tire size is the same
 

 
recap check your tire size is the same
as your image size drop your render

 
as your image size drop your render
 

 
as your image size drop your render
passes right down and then just hit bake

